.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: ''
assignees: ''

---

**IMPORTANT**
If you are getting a build error on Android that mentions AndroidX incompatibilities, before reporting an issue, please make sure look at the error information carefully as there should be a URL that provides information on migrating your application to AndroidX

**Describe the bug**
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

**To Reproduce**
If applicable, steps to reproduce the behavior:
1. Go to '...'
2. Click on '....'
3. Scroll down to '....'
4. See error

**Expected behavior**
If applicable, clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

**Sample code to reproduce the problem**
Ideally, include a link to a repository that contains code that can reproduce the problem. Suggestion is to fork this repository to modify the example app. Note that without a sample, it'll be may be more difficult to reproduce the problem and/or investigate further

Commit message:

Add note about running example app in bug report template

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: ''
assignees: ''

---

**IMPORTANT**
If you are getting a build error on Android that mentions AndroidX incompatibilities, before reporting an issue, please make sure look at the error information carefully as there should be a URL that provides information on migrating your application to AndroidX.

Also note that the plugin has an example application that should cover all of the available functionality. Please check the example application and see if the functionality works before logging an issue. You'll need to clone the repository to run it

**Describe the bug**
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

**To Reproduce**
If applicable, steps to reproduce the behavior:
1. Go to '...'
2. Click on '....'
3. Scroll down to '....'
4. See error

**Expected behavior**
If applicable, clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

**Sample code to reproduce the problem**
Ideally, include a link to a repository that contains code that can reproduce the problem. Suggestion is to fork this repository to modify the example app. Note that without a sample, it'll be may be more difficult to reproduce the problem and/or investigate further
